# Dr. Alexander Elder: New High - New Low Index Explained

Source: Video lecture by Dr. Alexander Elder

This is the chart. So this is a weekly chart, quite tight, quite compressed, no daily it goes back to 2019 years, remarked at the bottom, and you should have this chart in your inbox from this morning. So up there are two pains in the upper pain is s and p weekly chart with impulse system, of course and HR channels. And in the lower pain is the weekly new high new low index. And in this period of time, from 2019 until this very day so looking at six years actually 1, 2, 3, 4 six, and yeah, a little more than six years, we see three spike spike signals. This was the pandemic. It doesn't look so bad now. It looked a lot worse at, at, at the time in more ways than one. But you can see that during the pandemic this new high, new, weekly new high, new low fell to something like minus seven, no minus 8,000, I would say. And then it came out. And when it crossed above the MI minus 4,000 line, that was the buy signal and a fantastic bull market en suit, fantastic bull market lockdowns don't show up without a mask, vaccinations. And meanwhile, the market just shut, just, just went up, up, up, up. Then there was a bear market in 22, kind of soft, but there was a complex spike. This was spike n ber one, early spike n ber two with a bullish diversions, and then a, a false upside breakout. And then third spike is what really got this bull market going. And it has been going until just about months ago for two and a half years. So that was a very complex spike. And the, the right edge is where we are today. Well, this is the chart is one day late now this is where we're today. Um, the weekly new high, new low is below minus 4,000. It's at about five minus 5,000 on this chart. And actually today if I was redoing this chart, it would be minus 6,000. And, and of course, the key question is, what kind of bottom are we going to get? Is it going to be a simple single stab bottom as we had in in March of 2020? Or is it going to be a complex Uh, bottom that we had in the fall of 2022? Uh, what, what will it be? Because it, it both, both bottoms through possibility. Um, I don't have a crystal ball. I cannot forecast the future. I cannot give you a a clear absolute answer to this question. But I will share my thinking with you. And and my thinking is this it seems to me that the speed of this decline requires atest. Um, the the market of course had this tremendous shock with tariffs. Uh, and now that president Tr p granted something like think a hundred nations were affected, he granted a three months postponement of big tariffs to 75 of them. Uh, so that everybody will be paying 10% for the right to to come into our American sandbox and play here. Um, and people look at that with relief, 10% is certainly a lot better than what what was originally scheduled. Uh, but the economic fight is far from over, far from over. And I would say the likelihood of a complex bottom to a likelihood of a simple bottom, I would say it's about 55, maybe 60%, no more than that. So I would say that the complex bottom is slightly more likely to me than a single step. Of course, single step would be magnificent, which is buy everything and and stop looking at stocks for two years or a year and a half. But I'll continue to look and share it with you, of course. Uh, I'm not sure it's gonna be a single step, but but that's looking into the future. Uh, and, and the point really is not to forecast, not to guess but to watch the market day by day and week by week which is what I do in my letters to you. Um, so count, so at this point, okay, let's go to the daily chart. Uh, at this point here is a daily chart of the s and p. Um, I might, I might do a little shortening tomorrow because this kind of crazy rally. And of course, it'll continue in the morning as Bullishness carries over a little bit later in the day, it remains to be seen. Um, this is this is, you know, this kind of bar. It's not normal. Uh, just this horrendous decline that we had. It's not exactly normal. Uh, it's not normal. Uh, for the s and p, it went what, from 49 40 to 54. So so the 500 s and p points in a day, if we look at the weekly chart and just take a random bar from high to low is a hundred 115 points. That's a normal weekly bar. Well, here's a tall weekly bar, a tall weekly bar from six it's 300 points in a week, 300 points in a week. And we consider it an unusually active bar. Here. We have a single daily bar of 500 points. I would be very careful shopping tomorrow. Uh, and as, as a, as, as an active trader in front of a live screen, I think, I think I'll, I'll look for a little shortening here and there. Cautiously, very cautiously. So count me a bull. Uh, to s marize, count me a bull. Uh I think that this market has every right to reach into a normal target between the, in, in the value zone. Somewhere between around 5,700, maybe another couple of, well, today it closed at 40 54 50. So it's yeah, 200 points, maybe 200 points more. Um in the very short run, I'm a bull. Uh, but I think in the longer run I would expect some more bottom building action. But then eventually down the road, this could, this, this could develop into a major bull market. It's likely to develop into a major bull move. It's not likely to be just, you know, a couple of weeks throw. So count me, count me as a bull. But, but a cautious bull. Of course, as always.